the goal of good perimeter ization is usually to be able to condense
the notes set up into an easy to use and flexible node group
but it is generally advisable in any notes set up to
keep key inputs of the network exposed as input notes.
Even if it is just for the sake of readability
in this video,
I want to talk about the key concepts of identifying
the essential functionality to expose these parameters from a notary
and how to set them up in a sensible and user friendly way.
This chapter also has its own work for example,
where I show how I created the wooden floorboards,
that also includes how to parameter tries the main set up
in a note group to reuse it for other shakers.
The main idea behind parameter rising a shading setup is to be
able to control its properties with
a simplified and structured subset of parameters
instead of having to access the set up directly.
In certain cases this is as simple as exposing a parameter that is
already available in the notary to be accessed specifically as an input parameter.
In other cases however,
changing a single value on its own can
break the functionality of the setup and multiple values
in the no tree has to be driven
with the same parameter to retain a consistent functionality
and that is where parameters, Chatur really shows its advantages.
The result can easily be influenced without having to access
or even know how to use the whole notes set up
Parramatta. Ization not only makes a shader, much more flexible and customizable.
It also breaks its main functionality down into easily understandable terms.
This is crucial in a team with multiple people or even when
you're working on a complex notes set up on your own.
So while you are working on a note set up,
it is very useful to keep essential control of
the features that you implement accessible as parameters,
not every single value that you can choose in the setup
is worth being elevated to the position of a parameter though
for example, when your notes set up is using a noise texture,
not necessarily everyone of the inputs of this noise texture that
you can freely choose should be promoted to an input node.
You should focus on what the main functionality of the noises about
and make a selection what input would be useful to change later on
the others can be chosen as fixed default values.
So try to already, while you're working,
think about what values you might want to be able to dynamically change in the
future and assign them with a parameter by giving them an input value node.
How many different parameters a shader should
have is definitely a matter of preference
but I personally like to keep the number of dedicated parameters to control
the network down to a minimum while
still keeping the essential functionality accessible.
Having a set of parameters controlling the note tree that
is predefined to make it flexible and easy to control,
adds a lot of value to the shader and it is not
as trivial as it may seem in cases of more complex setups.
A crucial point about intuitive parameters is to calibrate their
behavior to something that makes sense for the use case
a lot of the time it makes sense. Do not just use a parameter as it is
without altering it, but calibrating its behavior to be more intuitive.
That behavior is mostly based on the range
and interpolation of how the value is used.
So usually just shifting and scaling the values range with math nose or a map range.
Note
is the easiest way to adapt its behavior but depending on
the functionality you are intending to drive with the parameter,
it might be needed to completely change the way it behaves.
That starts with simply inverting a parameter by subtracting it from one
Essentially swapping what means 100% and 0%.
Or for example dividing one by the parameter that can be used
for example to instead of defining the size of vector cells,
defining the number of cells that fit in one direction.
In this example it is also a good option to use the round
operation to only allow discrete values of whole numbers for the parameter input.
That makes the parameter easier to handle and communicates
more clearly how it is supposed to be used.
You can even make modest create requirements to the values
for example only allowing multiples of two
by dividing by two before the rounding operation
and multiplying by two afterwards
instead of two, that could of course be any other value as well.
Which you can define with another value input note for example.
And in that way you can use all different math operations
to get all sorts of specific behavior for an input parameter.
Another useful operation, for example is the exponential function.
With this operation.
I want to dive just a little bit into
the mathematics behind it when I plugged the parameter X
into the exponents input of the power operation that gives
the result and exponential behavior and that looks like this
depending on the base value of the note that I just set it to hear
that resulting value is doubled for every step of one of the input parameter.
That means the higher the value gets,
the faster it rises because here it is always doubled after just one more step.
And that can nicely be used to generate high precision for the controls for example,
to control the scale of a texture.
Using an exponential conversion,
negative values don't result in a negative scale
but just a factory that gets smaller and smaller.
The deeper I go into the negative values.
And in the other direction for high positive values.
The fact arises increasingly quickly.
For some applications like here, for example,
this behavior is more intuitive as the rate increases, adapts to the actual values
while the linear behavior seems to slow down for high factors.
By modular early nesting different operation types.
To modify the parameter,
you can this way create all sorts of
different behavior styles for an input parameter.
That's just as a simple example, take a look at this parametric bubble wrap shader.
This shader has three simple parameters that I specified as value inputs,
a division number, a random height factor and a variation parameter.
These parameters are not directly used in
the note that controls their functionality.
They are calibrated to a sensible operation range.
The division parameter is rounded to whole numbers to prevent any
inputs that result in a non discrete number of bubbles.
This parameter is used to control a whole
bunch of other operations in the notes system.
Most importantly,
it controls the way the coordinates are mapped into cells that
works with the huge jewel scale and fraction operation for the cellulitis
and the snap operation for the sell position.
But for the increments here, the parameter has to be inverted by dividing one by it
to retrieve the size of the cells instead of the number of cells per unit.
The random height parameter has to be inverted between zero and one because
it makes more sense to have maximum variation with a value of one
and not a variation at all at zero which is the exact opposite of what it was before.
The variation parameter has to be calibrated to.
But here the effect is gone for an input of one.
So to have the parameter make more sense.
I am adding a value of one to have no effect when the parameter is actually zero.
This is just a small example to show how these parameters come together.
Usually you want to define the system of parameters while you're working on the
set up and you can see me do that more in the workflow examples.